(THEME MUSIC PLAYING)
(ROARS)
(NARRATOR READING)
(KION READING)
They're still
not slowing down.
That rock slide
must'a really
spooked 'em!
ONO: There's a dead end
canyon up ahead to the left!
If we guide
the herd there,
we can contain them
and calm them down!
Great idea, Ono!
Let's follow Ono's plan!
Fuli, you take lead!
On it!
(ANTELOPES SNORTING)
Huh?
(RUMBLING)
What's all the noise,
Makuu?
I don't know.
But I'm going to find out.
KION: So is everyone
calmed down?
Great!
Then you're good to go home.
Slowly this time, okay?
That's right,
nice and slow.
See ya, anty-lanty-lopes!
Oh, hi, Makuu.
Makuu?
I thought you'd be sleeping
through the dry season
with the rest
of the crocodiles.
Oh, I was.
But then someone
drove a herd of antelope
right past our sleeping cave!
Hey! I think he might be
talking about us!
He is.
And using this canyon
was my idea!
Whoa!
So it's all your fault!
Bunga!
No, Bunga's right.
It is my fault!
I'm so sorry, Makuu.
I forgot your float
was sleeping in that cave.
We were sleeping.
But now,
thanks to the Lion Guard,
we're all wide awake!
So whaddaya
gonna do about it, huh?
Take it easy, Kiburi.
Sheesh! Somebody got up
on the wrong side
of the cave.
You can't blame him
for bein' upset.
We did wake 'em up.
And crocodiles usually
spend the whole dry season
in deep sleep.
But once they're awake,
they can't go back
to their deep sleep!
No way!
That's not true!
MAKUU: But it is.
We crocodiles need a whole
lot of water to survive.
Since there isn't enough
to go around
in the dry season,
we sleep through it.
Whoa!
Ono, you really messed up...
ALL: Bunga!
If Ono's the reason
we're awake,
I say we deal with him
the crocodile way!
Hapana.
Oh, no, you don't!
Kiburi!
Control yourself!
I'll handle this.
Yes, Makuu.
Now that we're awake,
we'll need water
for the rest
of the dry season.
Any idea
where we'll find it?
We'll go to my dad.
Your dad?
(SCOFFS)
Kiburi...
Yeah. My dad.
He makes sure everyone
has enough water
in the dry season.
Everyone?
I know he'll take care
of you and your float, Makuu.
He'd better.
I'm going to speak
to King Simba.
Stay here
until I come back.
Stay here?
But...
(ROARS)
Yeah, okay, Makuu.
Whatever you say.
You're the leader.
And don't you forget it.
Don't worry, Ono.
Everything's gonna be okay.
I hope.
Crocodiles awake
in the dry season?
Something's up.
Okay, they're gone.
Now, this is how
it's going down.
We're leaving
this dried-out canyon
and finding us some water!
But you just said...
Never mind what I said!
Listen to what I'm saying!
We're crocodiles!
We don't wait around
for other animals
to tell us what to do!
We take what we want!
Yeah! He's right!
Yeah, we do!
So I say
we don't stay here!
I say we spread out
and get ourselves
some water!
Are you with me?
ALL: Yeah!
Then let's go!
Hmm-mmm.
Crocs on the rampage.
Ushari will want to
hear about this.
And so will Scar!
Your spies
have done well, Ushari.
This is very
good news indeed.
Crocodiles detest
the dry season.
And they won't easily
forgive Simba's son
and his Lion Guard
for waking them.
It could give us
an opportunity.
Yes.
That's what I thought, too.
Have your Skinks
keep an eye
on the situation.
Tell me immediately
if anything changes.
You heard that?
Yes, sir.
The Lion Guard's
mistake could prove
most fortuitous for us.
Perhaps it will even lead
to the end of Simba's reign.
And then we reptiles
will rule the Pride Lands!
Uh, under your
leadership, of course.
Right, Scar?
Of course, Ushari.
Of course.
(LAUGHS MANIACALLY)
MAKUU: It really is
a matter of our survival,
Your Majesty.
They sure have been
talking awhile.
You think they're
talking about me?
I'm pretty sure
they're more worried
about where the crocs
are gonna live
for the rest
of the dry season.
Yeah. But it's my fault
the crocs are awake!
(WHIMPERS) What if I'm
exiled to the Outlands?
Or fed to the crocs!
Easy, Ono.
None of that's gonna happen!
You just made a mistake.
Yeah, you heard Kion.
You got nothin'
to worry about!
Ono!
Come over here.
But, I could be wrong.
Oh, no...
Perhaps,
you don't understand
how much water
crocodiles need, sire.
I do, Makuu.
And I'll see
that you have it.
Dad? What if Ono looks out
over the Pride Lands
to see which watering hole
is least crowded?
Then maybe that one
can go to the crocodiles!
Excellent idea, Kion.
Ono?
Yes, Your Majesty!
It'd be my pleasure!
I'm sure we can
find a place
for your float, Makuu.
Thank you,
Your Majesty.
I want to
settle this peacefully.
(GASPS) Hapana!
Kion! Your Majesty!
The crocodiles
are everywhere!
They've moved
in to watering holes
all over the Pride Lands!
Crocodiles?
Makuu? I thought
you said you wanted to
settle this peacefully.
I do! I do!
Whoever is doing this,
they're defying
a direct order!
We'll have to
finish this later.
I need to deal
with my float.
Makuu, wait.
We are very close
to a solution.
Let the Lion Guard
handle this.
Mmm. Very well.
We need to split up
to gather them all.
Till the Pride Lands end...
ALL: Lion Guard defend!
(WHIMPERS)
(GASPS)
That was a warning.
This is our
watering hole now!
We say
when you can drink!
And if you don't listen...
Lemme show you
what'll happen.
KION: Stop
right there, Kiburi!
This is not your place!
Leave the impalas alone!
It's our place now Kion.
And I'm gonna
teach 'em who's boss!
(GRUNTS)
Okay, fine.
I'll teach you instead.
MAKUU: Kiburi!
What are you doing?
What you should have
told us to do!
I'm takin'
the water we need!
Against my orders!
You knew I was talking
to King Simba to get help.
Yes. And together
we have found
a watering hole
that you can
have for your own.
KIBURI: Hmph!
SIMBA: Kion, will you
and the Lion Guard
escort Makuu
and the crocodiles
to their dry season home?
KION: Sure, Dad.
See, Ono?
Now the crocs have
their own watering hole.
Everything's
gonna be fine.
Just like Kion said.
Maybe my mistake wasn't
such a disaster after all.
This is a disaster!
Oh...
I know
it's crowded, Kiburi.
But it really
is a good spot.
My dad says
there's enough
water and fish
to last you
the whole dry season.
Oh, really?
"Your dad" says so?
Hey!
"His dad" is your King.
Yeah. And besides,
there's tons of water!
I'll show ya!
Zuka zama!
(BUNGA GROANS)
Ha! That's some hard water.
At least you get to be
close to all your friends.
Yeah.
Really close!
See? I didn't even
get my feet wet!
The honey badger
can't even get
his feet wet!
What kind of
watering hole is this?
I know it's not perfect.
But it's the best way
to get our float
through the dry season.
It's a compromise.
Compromise?
Since when is that
the crocodile way?
Kiburi,
the dry season is dry.
There's not much
water anywhere
in the Pride Lands.
This is our share.
Share?
We're crocodiles, Makuu!
We deserve better!
This is the best
we can get.
If you don't like it,
you can try your luck
in the Outlands!
Or I can call
for a Mashindano!
(ALL GASP)
A Mashindano?
So now you
want to fight me
for leadership
of the crocodiles, huh?
It's the crocodile way.
Then I accept.
Lake Matope at sunset.
I know the tradition,
Makuu.
Let's see if you
still know how to fight.
(SCAR LAUGHS MANIACALLY)
A Mashindano?
At sunset. Tonight.
You have brought me
valuable information.
Well done, Skinks.
Tell me, Ushari.
Does the Mashindano
still attract large crowds
of Pride Landers?
Yes.
Yes, it does.
Some things never change.
And even the royal family
attends the Mashindano.
Correct?
Yes!
So, it's the perfect time
to get rid of King Simba.
How are we
going to do that?
We needn't do much at all.
Kiburi and his crocs
will do the dirty work
for us.
You'd be surprised
what can be done
while everyone else
is distracted
by the Mashindano.
Ushari. I need you
to trick Kiburi
into thinking he can
rule the Pride Lands.
He'll rule the Pride Lands?
Of course not!
But we want him
to believe that he will,
so he'll do what we want.
Yes! Of course!
Now...
Here's the plan
I want you to plant
in Kiburi's tiny little brain.
You think Kiburi can win?
I hope not.
Yeah. Makuu's
become a good leader.
And you've discussed
the plan with your crocs?
Yeah, yeah.
They know what to do.
You're a smart snake,
Ushari.
I like how you think.
Thanks.
I just want to be
on the winning side.
And you will be!
TAMKA: Kiburi!
Time for the Mashindano!
Great.
You three know what to do
while I'm fighting, right?
Oh, yeah!
He'll never see us coming.
Good.
Once I defeat Makuu,
not only
will I rule the float,
but we crocs will rule
the whole Pride Lands!
(LAUGHS MANIACALLY)
ALL CHANTING:
Mah-shin-dah-no!
Here they come.
It's starting!
All right, Kiburi.
You wanted this Mashindano.
Let's see what you got.
(BOTH GRUNTING)
ALL: Ooh!
Okay. Split up
and meet at the target.
Then we'll take him down!
(GRUNTING)
You think that's enough
to beat me, Kiburi?
ALL: Ooh!
Ugh! Crocodile violence!
I don't want to watch this.
Huh. That's strange.
A crocodile leaving
the Mashindano?
Wait a tic...
ONO: What are you guys
up to?
(PANTING)
I just saw three crocodiles
leaving the Mashindano.
Three crocodiles?
Yes.
And nothing's
more important
to the crocodiles
than the Mashindano.
It doesn't make sense.
Keep an eye on 'em.
Affirmative.
Fuli, Beshte, Bunga.
What's the kerbubble, Kion?
Something's up
with the crocs,
but I'm not sure what.
We'll need to be careful.
There's a lot of
animals here.
We don't want to scare them
and start a stampede.
Come on!
Hapana!
Kion!
I've figured it out!
The crocs!
They're sneaking up
on your dad!
My dad?
Yes. And I think
they're going to attack him!
Heyvi kabisa!
Of course.
They're using the Mashindano
as a distraction!
Go around the crowd!
They're moving to
ambush him from behind.
Let's go!
(CHUCKLES)
It's just like Kiburi said.
Now, let's do this.
(GRUNTING)
If you're smart,
you'll stop right now.
Well, we're not smart!
So get out of our way.
(GRUNTS)
(ROARS)
Kion?
Kion!
What is going on?
Nothing now, Dad.
They were trying
to ambush me.
And use the Mashindano
for cover.
But Ono saw it coming.
Hmmm.
I know these crocodiles.
They wouldn't have come up
with this themselves.
(KIBURI GRUNTING)
What's the matter, Kiburi?
Can't move?
(GRUNTING)
Simba's gone.
Fine.
CROCODILES:
Makuu! Makuu! Makuu!
Ha! This Mashindano
means nothing.
While you were all
watching us fight,
my loyal crocodiles
took down King Simba!
Yeah. Yeah, you heard me!
And with the Lion King gone,
all of yous
answer to us crocodiles!
SIMBA: Really?
Is that how it works?
What?
But how...
The Lion Guard!
That's how!
Your Majesty.
I assure you,
I had no knowledge
of this scheme.
I know.
This came from Kiburi.
But since you are
the crocodile leader,
I'll defer
his punishment to you.
Kiburi lost the Mashindano.
He and his followers
are no longer
welcome in my float.
Do with him
what you see fit.
Very well...
Kiburi. You
and your followers
are banished
from the Pride Lands.
Leave now,
and never come back.
But...
I said, now.
Fine.
But you haven't heard
the last of me!
(CHITTERING)
You!
You said if we
attacked Simba,
I could rule
the whole Pride Lands!
Now what have I got?
Nothin'!
Yes.
It's too bad
you lost the Mashindano.
"Too bad?"
Is that all you got
to say about it?
One battle
doesn't lose a war,
my reptile friend.
Now you're
callin' me a reptile?
Gimme one reason
I shouldn't eat you
right now.
I can give you
all the reasons
in the Pride Lands.
But first let me
show you something very...
Very...
Special.
What kinda special?
You'll have to
see it to believe it.
This way...
So what's this great thing
I'm supposed to see?
A volcano?
I'm much more
than a volcano.
Wha... What?
Welcome
to the Outlands, Kiburi.
(LAUGHS)
Yeah. Welcome!
What's going on?
Don't worry, Kiburi,
we're all friends here.
I have plans for you
and your crocodiles.
Big plans indeed!
(LAUGHS MANIACALLY)
♪ They thought
I was defeated
♪ But very soon we'll see
♪ The shock as I rise
from the flames
♪ So triumphantly
♪ I never thought
I'd have this chance
♪ Oh, how long it's been
♪ A second opportunity
♪ And this time I'll win
♪ For I have a plan
♪ Enlighten us now
♪ Yes I have a plan
♪ We wanna know how
♪ Follow my lead,
that's all you need
♪ Yes, I have a plan
♪ We'll gather every animal
in the Outlands
♪ We'll unify them all
under my lead
♪ And once our league
is assembled
♪ We will be victorious
♪ It'll be glorious
♪ All the Pride Land's
lush terrain
♪ Will again be my domain
♪ For I have a plan
♪ We know it's true
♪ Yes, I have a plan
♪ That's what we'll do
♪ Follow my lead,
that's all you need
♪ I have a plan
♪ Yes, I have a plan
♪ We love your scheme
♪ I have a plan
(COUGHS)
♪ And lots of steam
♪ Follow my lead,
that's all you need
♪ Yes, I have a plan ♪
Ono, you really
don't have to do this.
Yeah. Everyone knows
it was an accident.
I know.
But still...
It's the only way
I'll feel okay
about what happened.
(GASPS)
(CLEARS THROAT)
Excuse me.
Makuu?
Yes?
Um, about the
crocodiles being awake
for the dry season?
Well, uh, as I'm sure
you know, it's...
It's all my fault.
It is, isn't it?
Yes, yes it is.
And I...
I just wanted to say...
I'm sorry.
I see.
Then, as leader
of the crocodiles,
I need to make
an example of you.
Uh... You do?
Yes.
(WHIMPERS)
I forgive you.
Huh? You...
You what?
You heard me.
I told Makuu how your keen
sight foiled Kiburi's plan.
We all make mistakes, Ono.
But you also proved
yourself invaluable today.
Thank you.
Oh! Well...
I mean...
Thank you!
So, Makuu,
is this the new
"crocodile way?"
Perhaps it is, Simba.
Perhaps it is.
If you ask me,
it's a crocodile way
I could get used to!
A-ffirmative!
(CHORUS VOCALIZING)
♪ Look out
Here comes the Lion Guard ♪